1.
  ~~~~ruby
  def repeat(str, times)
    while times > 0
      puts str
      times -= 1
    end
  end
  ~~~~
  
  The `repeat` method is defined from line one to line 6 and takes two paramiters, `str` and `times`.
  On **lines 2 through 5** a while loop **is invoked**. It is passed the argument `times > 0` and will continually run **the loop** as for long as the argument evaluates to true.
  During each iteration of the loop lines 3 and 4 will run.
  On line 3, the `puts` method is invoked and it is passed the local variable `str` as an argument. this will output the value that is passed into the method at invocation and it will return `nil`.
  On line 4, the `-=` assignment operator reassigns local variable `times` to the value currently assigned to it minus one.
  When `times > 0` no longer evaluates to true, the while loop returns `nil`. since this is the last evaluated code in the method, the method will always have a return value of `nil`.
  
  
2.
```ruby
  def is_odd?(num)
    num % 2 == 1
  end
```

the `is_odd?` method is defined on lines 1 through 3 and has one paramiter, the method local variable `num`. on line two `num` calls the `%` method and passes the integer `2` as an argument. `%` returns the remainder of the calling object divided by the argument. the equivalance oporator then checks if `num % 2` is equal to `1` and retuns a boolean. since this is the last line of code run in the method, its return value is what the method returns.

3.
```ruby
  def digit_list(num)
    list = []
    num.to_s.each_char do |n|
      list << n.to_i
    end
    list
  end
```

The `digit_list` method is defined on lines 1 through 7 and has one paramiter, the method local variable `num`.
on line two the local variable `list` is initialized and assigned an empty array object. 
on line 3 `num` calls the `to_s` method which returns a string object. `each_char` is caled on that string and is passed a `do..end` block with one paramiter, the block local variable `n`. each character in the string returned by the `to_s` method is assinged to `n` and the block is run.
on line 4 the local variable `list` calls the `<<` method with `n.to_i` as an argument. this mutates `list` by appending the integer returned by `n.to_i`. `<<` returns the mutated object assigned to `list`. the block also returns the object assigned to `list` but `each_char` does nothing with that value and returns the calling object, `num.to_s`.
line six evaluates the local variable `list` so that it is the last line evaluated by the method and the object assigned to it is returned by the method.

4.
```ruby
def count_occurrences(arr)
  count = {}

  arr.each do |element|
    count[element.downcase] = arr.count(element.downcase)
  end

  count.each { |element, number| puts "#{element} = #{number}" }
end
```
The `count_occurrences` method is defined from line 1 to line 9. It has one paramiter, the method local variable `arr`. 
on line two the local variable `count` is initialized and assigned and empty hash object.
On line 4 the `each` method is invoked on `arr` and passed a do..end block. the block is passed one paramiter, the block local variable `element`.
Within the block on line 5 a new key value pair is created in `count`. The key is the return value of `downcase` being called on the curent iteration of `element`. The value is assigned the return valur of `arr` invoking the `count` method with the argument `element.downcase`. 
Line 8 has `count` calling the `each` method which is passed a block with two paramiters, the method local variables `element` and `number`. `element` is local only to this block and has no connection to the `element` variable in the block on lines 4 to 6. Blocks create their own scope therefore variables initialized within them are not available outside of them.
on line 8 withing the block the `puts` method is called passed an interpolated string as an argument. 
since this is the last evaluated line in the method definition, it is the return value of the method. `each` always returns the calling object so the retrun of teh method is teh hash object assigned to `count`.

5.
```ruby
def reverse_sentence(sentence)
  sentence.split.reverse.join(' ')
end
```
the `reverse_sentence` method is defined on lines 1 to 3 with one paramiter, the method local variable `sentence`
on line two `sentence` calls the `split` method with no argumetns passed. This separated the string object it was called on at any place it finds the argument that wass passed to it. if no object is passed, it defaults to `' '`. It retruns an array object containing each of the separated sting objects. The `reverse` method is invoked on that array object and retruns and array object with the collection in the reverse order. This array calls the `join` method with `' '` passed as an argumnet. this returns a string object containing string objects in the array combined into one string, separated by the passed argument. since this is the only evaluated line of code in the method, it's return value is what the method returns.

6.
```ruby
def reverse_words(sentence)
  new_sentence = sentence.split.map do |word|
                   word.size < 5 ? word : word.reverse
                 end

  new_sentence.join(' ')
end

entry = 'Test sentence'

reverse_words(entry)
```
On line 9 local variable `entry` is initialized and assigned a string object with the value `'Test sentence'`
on line 11 the `reverse_words` method is invoked and passed the object `entry`.
`reverse_words` is defined from line 1 to 7 and takes one paramiter, the method local variable `sentence`. `sentence` is assigned to the same string object referenced by `entry`.
on line two, the method local variable `new_sentence` is initialized. It is asigned the return value of the method chian invoked on line 2, `sentence.split.map`. the `split` method is passed no argument so it splits the calling string object at any `' '` character and returns the array object `['Test', 'sentence']`.
the `map` method is invoked on this array and passed a do end block. each object in the calling array is passed in turn into the block and assigned to the block local variable `word`.
on line 3 there is a ternery opperator. it evaluates teh truthiness of `word.size < 5`. if the curent iteration of `word` has fewer than 5 characters than it returns true and the object assigned to `word` is returned. if `word` has 5 or more characters than `word.reverse` is returned. 
the `map` method uses teh block to transform the calling object. it returns an array of the return value of teh block for each iteration. this array object is assigned to `new_sentence`. `new_sentence` now ponts to the array object `['Test', 'ecnetnes']`.
line 6 has the `join` method called on `new_sentence` and passed the argument `' '`. this returns a string of the objects in the calling collection separed by the argument. this is the last evaluated line of the method so it's return value is what the method returns. 
Line 11 returns the string object `'Test ecnetnes'`

7.
```ruby
def stringy(num, start_at = 1)
  string = ''

  case start_at
  when 1 then first, second = '1','0'
  when 0 then first, second = '0','1'
  else        return 'Second argument must be either 1 or 0'
  end
  
  num.times do |index|
    index.even? ? string << first : string << second
  end

  string
end
  
stringy(7)
```
The `stringy` method is called on line 17 and passed the integer 7 as an argument. The `stringy` method, defined from line 1 to 15, and takes two paramiters, the method local variables `num` and `start_at`. `start_at` has the integer `1` as a default argument. The invocation only passes one argument, the integer `7` which is assigned to `num`, and `start_at` is assigned it's default argument `1`.
on line two the method local variable string is initialized and assigned an empty string object.
A Case statement is started on line 4, checking the object assigned to `start_at`. since `start_at` points to the integer `1`, line 5 is evaluated.
Line 5 initializes the method local variables `first` and `second` and assigns them the string objects `'1'` and `'0'` respectively.
on line 10 `num` calls the `times` method which is passed a do..end block with one paramiter, the block local variable `index`. `index` is assigned the integer current iteration from the range of `0..num - 1`, in this invocation `0..6`
line 11 has a ternery operator which evaluates the return value of `index.even?` which returns `true` if `index` points to an even integer and `false` if not.
if `index.even?` returns true, `string << first` is evaluated. the `<<` method appends the argument to the caller. if `index.even?` is false, `string << second` is evaluated. 
the block is run 6 times, alternating between appending `'1'` and `'0'` to `string`
line 14 evaluates `string`, which points to the string object `'101010'`. this is the last evaluated line of the method so the method retruns `'101010'`
